# Digit-Recognizer
Using machine learning to classify hand-written images into recognized digits.
This project is a submission to the Kaggle competition "Digit Recognizer" as a participant of the KaggleX Mentorship Program. This script covers exploratory data analysis, visualizations, and machine learning using the model XGBoost.

## Process
I started this project by developing essential machine learning skills and concepts through Kaggle courses. These courses demonstrated machine learning in Python on smaller datasets. Once I was comfortable applying these techniques to various datasets, I gained domain knowledge about the dataset. The dataset is provided by the MNIST (Modified National Institue of Standards and Technology) database. This is a database of 60,000+ hand-written images of digits 0-9. The initiative behind MNIST is to assist the nation in improving its innovation and economic rank, as at some point America was not known for its innovation and economic status. Afterwards, I performed exploratory data analysis, getting accustomed to how the data is structured, detecting outliers, and data quality. I chose to apply the two machine learning models I learned, RandomForest and XGBoost. Both of these models are considered as "ensembl" methods. They are reiterative models that take multiple decisions into account. The RandomForest model uses multiple decision trees and provides an average output. XGBoost is a gradient-boosting model that aims to optimize its loss after every epoch or cycle ran. Ultimately, I decided to use XGBoost as it is favored for its performance and speed. Initially, I started with RandomForest but this model exhibited a longer computation time. I was able to train a model using XGBoost, splitting the training set into .75 and .25 to check the model, ensuring that both splits were representative of all digits. Once the model was trained, hyperparameters tuning was done to further optimize the model. The model was then executed on the test set of data and submitted for accuracy. The accuracy of the model's classification is 96%.
